---
layout: event
categories:
  - events
links:
title: "IN2IT Chicago: Creating a Platform for Civic Engagement"
description: "Almost two years have passed since a group of Chi Hack Night attendees began volunteering every Tuesday night to work on a project to make it easier for people to get involved in their local communities. In this presentation, IN2IT will trace their journey to creating a unique platform for civic engagement."
speakers:
 - "Cameron Sow, Project Lead"  
 - "Austin Schey, Lead Back-End Developer"
 - "Wes Thorburn, Lead Front-End Developer"
 - "Deanna Franklin, Lead Designer"
image: /images/events/375-I2I-Logo_11-2019-Original_Colors-01.jpg
date: 2019-11-19T18:00:00-05:00
event_id: 375
youtube_id: 
agenda: https://docs.google.com/document/d/10iFeVTBe2r_Qh8ZEVLrbW_D8w-8K0yJr4c69eKKpKLM/edit?usp=sharing
sponsor: <a href='https://chihacknight.org/'>Chi Hack Night Community</a>
asl_provided: true
tags:
published: true
---

Almost two years have passed since a group of Chi Hack Night attendees began volunteering every Tuesday night to work on a project to make it easier for people to get involved in their local communities.

Over that time IN2IT has come a long way. The IN2IT team is now ready to share their prototype with the Chi Hack Night community. At the same time, they are asking for your feedback and support as they prepare to launch the Beta version to the broader Chicago area. 

In this presentation, IN2IT will trace their journey to creating a unique platform for civic engagement. They will share insights about their approach to user research which focused on ‘creating not just for, but with' all Chicagoans. They will also talk about some of the challenges and successes the group met along the way, while sharing insights that might be helpful to other volunteer projects. 

IN2IT will be sharing information about their technical infrastructure, UX and UI work, as well as their approach to design more generally. Throughout the presentation attendees have the opportunity to consider what civic engagement means in a city like Chicago—with a rich civic history—in a time where this question has gained renewed significance. 

---

**RSVP required** Braintree now requires all attendees to [RSVP beforehand]({{site.rsvp_url}}) by 12:00 PM (noon). Walk-ins will not be allowed!

**ASL** This event will {% unless page.asl_provided %} not {% endunless %}have an American Sign Language interpreter.

**Food** Food and drinks will be provided. We encourage attendees to bring their own water bottles to reduce waste.
