---
layout: remote_event
categories:
  - events
links: 
title: "400th episode of Chi Hack Night!"
description: "Join us for our 400th episode! We will host a big Zoom call to socialize, reflect on Chi Hack Night’s past, and to discuss constructive ways our community can support efforts to end racial injustice and help those in need during the COVID-19 crisis."
speakers:
 - ""
image: /images/logo/logo-star-social.jpg
image_credit:
date: 2020-06-02T19:00:00-05:00
event_id: 400
youtube_id: 
agenda: 
sponsor: Chi Hack Night Community
asl_provided: false
tags: 
published: true

---

[Chi Hack Nights are now remote!](/blog/2020/03/16/chi-hack-night-going-remote.html) Same time, but now from the comfort of your self-quarantine location!

Join us on Zoom at 7pm for this week's conversation.

---

Join us for the 400th episode of Chi Hack Night!

We approach our 8th year as a formalized gathering (now a non-profit!) with our nation in the grip of [several crises](https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/plagued-by-disease-unemployment-and-outrage-at-the-police-america-plunges-into-crisis/2020/05/29/c8329bb2-a1b5-11ea-81bb-c2f70f01034b_story.html): the continued police killings of black Americans and the COVID-19 pandemic and its resulting economic devastation.

While our community has much to celebrate at this important milestone, we are choosing to forgo our typical revelry and instead focus on actions we can take to help. For our 400th episode, we will host a big Zoom call to socialize, reflect on Chi Hack Night’s past, and to discuss constructive ways our community can support efforts to end racial injustice and help those in need during the COVID-19 crisis. 

The conversation will be facilitated and set up so you will have a chance to discuss in small groups with fellow attendees and Chi Hack Night [board members](http://chihacknight.org/board-of-directors.html). We will split into breakout groups, each covering a specific topic.

Afterwards, we’ll come back together and share out what each group discussed and identify actions the Chi Hack Night community can take.

Also, please note that although we are big fans of technology and data, those tools may not always be the best way to help in every situation. Donating money, volunteering your physical labor, and raising awareness of these issues with your friends and family can be more helpful than an app.

---

**ASL** This event will {% unless page.asl_provided %} not {% endunless %}have an American Sign Language interpreter.
