---
layout: technexus_event
categories:
  - events
links: 
title: "Open Hack (presenter rescheduled)"
description: "There will be no presentation this week. Instead, we're going to have an Open Hack. Join us in person or remote for introductions, socializing, announcements and breakout groups."
speakers:
image: /images/logo/logo-star-social.jpg
image_credit: 
date: 2022-04-12T18:00:00-05:00
event_id: 488
youtube_id: 
agenda: https://docs.google.com/document/d/14GtScQm0l6GyqdNht0LpqG8LmcEF7i3COjNJ06PaTj8/edit#
sponsor: Chi Hack Night Community
rsvp_url: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/in-person-chi-hack-night-tickets-207988107027
asl_provided: true
tags:
published: true
redirect_from: events/2022/04/12/chicago-digital-equity-council.html

---

**This event will be in person, but you can also tune in via our usual livestream. Doors open at 6pm. Announcements will start around 6:20pm CST.**

**In-person:** <a href='https://www.google.com/maps/place/TechNexus+Venture+Collaborative/@41.8835673,-87.6394085,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x880e2d5be57f04c5:0xa87e47e177660090!8m2!3d41.8835673!4d-87.6372198'>TeamWorking, 20 N Upper Wacker Drive, 12th Floor, Chicago IL</a>. Enter the Civic Opera Building using the entrance in the middle of the block between Washington and Madison streets. Take the elevators to the 12th floor.

For more information on our return to in-person events, please see our [return to in person blog post](/blog/2021/11/09/2021-return-to-in-person.html). 

---

**Note:** Devon Braunstein, Digital Inclusion Policy Fellow at the City of Chicago was originally scheduled to present but needed to reschedule to a later date.

---

There will be no presentation this week. Instead, we're going to have an Open Hack. Here's the agenda:

1. Welcome and introductions
2. Socializing in small groups to meet and get to know your fellow hack night-ers
3. Announcements from Chi Hack Night and attendees
4. Breakout group pitches

---

**RSVP** In-person attendees are strongly encouraged to [RSVP beforehand]({{page.rsvp_url}}). As occupancy limits permit, walk-ins will be allowed to enter.

**Vaccination required** In order to keep attendees safe, we will be requiring proof of vaccination at the door. A physical vaccine cards or picture of one will be accepted. If you are not vaccinated, you can tune in to the livestream.

**Masks required** Attendees will be required to wear a mask. We will provide additional masks if you forget yours.

**Snacks and drinks provided** Serving communal food in a pandemic is still a bit risky. We will be providing some light snacks and drinks, so you may want to grab some dinner ahead of time.

**ASL** This event will {% unless page.asl_provided %} not {% endunless %}have an American Sign Language interpreter.
