---
layout: technexus_event
categories:
  - events
links: 
title: "In-person and Online: Budburst: Climate change research and big data using community science"
description: "Budburst, a community science program hosted at the Chicago Botanic Garden, pursues two primary goals: Research and education. In 2021, Budburst relaunched their website and launched a mobile application, allowing for even easier data collection. Dr. Oschrin will share her perspective on the process of leading the design and build of the Budburst website and mobile app without prior technical experience."
speakers:
 - "Dr. Emma Oschrin, Budburst Director, she/her/hers" 
image: /images/events/545-Emma_Oschrin_headshot_square.jpg
image_credit: 
date: 2023-06-13T18:00:00-05:00
event_id: 545
youtube_id: zHjCP9jguSk
agenda: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RKxvkI5eE2mBHpROUIjs83Aeh9-DnUATEUSDPDuCADc/edit#slide=id.g121c7120608_0_0
sponsor: Chi Hack Night Community
rsvp_url: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/in-person-chi-hack-night-tickets-207988107027
remote_url: 
asl_provided: false
tags: 
 - environment
 - citizen science
published: true

---

**This event will be in person, but you can also tune in via our usual livestream. Doors open at 6pm. The livestream and announcements will start around 6:30pm CDT.**

**In-person:** <a href='https://www.google.com/maps/place/TechNexus+Venture+Collaborative/@41.8835673,-87.6394085,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x880e2d5be57f04c5:0xa87e47e177660090!8m2!3d41.8835673!4d-87.6372198'>TeamWorking, 20 N Upper Wacker Drive, 12th Floor, Chicago IL</a>. Enter the Civic Opera Building using the entrance in the middle of the block between Washington and Madison streets. Take the elevators to the 12th floor.

For more information on our in-person events, please see our [COVID Policy](/blog/2022/09/09/our-covid-19-policy.html). 

---

[Budburst](https://budburst.org), a community science program hosted at the Chicago Botanic Garden, pursues two primary goals: Research and education. Budburst brings together researchers, educators, and community scientists to answer critical ecological research questions about plants and climate change and plant-animal interactions. We connect with community scientists by working with community organizations, libraries, schools, and nature centers across the US.

Budburst began in 2007 and since then almost 30,000 community scientists from all over the world have contributed over 270,000 data points. This large dataset allows for many questions to be explored but there are also challenges that come along with using community science data. Budburst Director, Dr. Emma Oschrin, will share details about the Budburst dataset, how it can be accessed and utilized by the public, as well as the challenges to data use and data management.

In 2021, Budburst relaunched their website and launched a mobile application, allowing for even easier data collection. Dr. Oschrin will share her perspective on the process of leading the design and build of the Budburst website and mobile app without prior technical experience.

---

**RSVP** In-person attendees should [RSVP beforehand]({{page.rsvp_url}}). As occupancy limits permit, walk-ins will be allowed to enter.

**Vaccination required** In order to keep attendees safe, we will be requiring proof of vaccination at the door. A physical vaccine cards or picture of one will be accepted. If you are not vaccinated, you can tune in to the livestream.

**Masks required** Attendees will be required to wear a mask. We will provide additional masks if you forget yours.

**There will be food!** We will be serving chicken, steak and veggie tacos from [Atolito's Tacos](https://atolito.com/restaurant/625/Atolito)!
