---
layout: remote_event
categories:
  - events
links: 
title: "Online: IN2IT Chicago: Making Local Civic Engagement Easier"
description: "Join us as we share lessons learned and opportunities ahead in making it easier to get civically engaged in Chicago. Find or recommend volunteer opportunities, help us spread the word, and let us know what you think as we work together to strengthen community life in Chicago."
speakers:
  - Cameron Sow (he/him) - Product Development 
  - Wes Thorburn (he/him) - Web Development 
  - Deanna Franklin (she/her) - Design 
image: /images/events/601-in2it.jpg
image_credit:
date: 2024-08-13T19:00:00-05:00
event_id: 601
youtube_id: 
agenda: https://docs.google.com/document/d/14GtScQm0l6GyqdNht0LpqG8LmcEF7i3COjNJ06PaTj8/edit#
sponsor: Chi Hack Night Community
asl_provided: false
tags: 
published: true

---

Chicago is a city with a strong commitment to civic engagement, yet many Chicagoans face barriers to getting involved locally.

In conversations with aspiring volunteers we kept hearing about the challenges people faced in finding impactful ways to get involved across the city. While many opportunities were available, they were scattered across hundreds of sites. We found that existing volunteer platforms were difficult for people to use, and finding the right event was hard.

Speaking to organizations, we found that they also faced a range of challenges in seeking, finding and stewarding volunteers.

Working with potential volunteers and organizations, IN2IT Chicago set out to help. After a few years of dedicated work by an awesome team, IN2IT Chicago is ready to launch! We are excited to share about our journey which includes building a volunteer platform, teamwork as a Chi Hack Night breakout group, and even navigating to the other side of a global pandemic.

Join us as we share lessons learned and opportunities ahead in making it easier to get civically engaged in Chicago. Find or recommend volunteer opportunities, help us spread the word, and let us know what you think as we work together to strengthen community life in Chicago.